## Emily Yarish, eay18@pitt.edu, Aug 30 2017


I used the Brown corpus, because I am familiar with it from LING 1330, and figured it would help to refresh my memory a little bit. It’s a collection of 500 articles, around 1 million words, from newspapers or other documents. The Brown corpus is interesting because each piece of the corpus is guaranteed to be somewhat different. If, for instance, you did a corpus of speeches (which we also looked at last semester) there is a chance that there will be a lot of overlap. I clicked on a few articles and people were speaking about President Kennedy (a03), a religious ceremony (b21), directions for completing a piece of pottery (e15), and some sort of story about a doctor, that I think was maybe a vet (k27). What is most interesting about the corpus is its diverse language, and I think you can really feel that just browsing through the different articles for about 30 minutes and reading even just a sentence or two. For example, one I think I read was a poem, and the language was very descriptive. Another was a non-fiction article and the language was much shorter and punctual, and even harsh. Certain stories are just to get to the point, and others are to entertain.
http://brown.nlp2rdf.org/lod/
Creator/Contributor: Martin  Brummer
License: I have no idea if this is licensed, it didn’t really say on the website.


I sort of wanted to make my own “data set,” so I used a few famous speeches that I was interested in reading a little more about. I used Ronald Reagan’s ‘Tear Down This Wall,’ and Abraham Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address. It was interesting looking through the three speeches because they were during such completely different times in our country’s history and yet, they both address the future. I have a fascination with history, and when our assignment said to not be limited to the resources, I figured I would do my own investigating! The language of both speeches is formal and passionate, which would be expected from two presidents. Both speeches bring up “freedom,” which is a very important word to the foundation of our country’s morals and founding. Nothing really surprises me based on the words and language both of these men used. Reagan’s speech is longer than Lincoln’s.
http://www.historyplace.com/speeches/reagan-tear-down.htm
Speaker: Ronald Reagan

https://www.ourdocuments.gov/doc.php?flash=false&doc=36&page=transcript
Speaker: Abraham Lincoln
Draft: Nicolay Copy
Transcriber: Lincoln Studies Center, Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois
License: I don’t think this speech is licensed.
